Initial implementation (#1)
cloudposse/github-action-telemetry: README.md

# GitHub Action for Telemetry

**Name:** `cloudposse/github-action-telemetry`

This GitHub Action will scrape the event for JIRA tickets and an assortment of relevant metadata and post it to a webhook endpoint

## Usage instructions

Create a workflow file (e.g. `.github/workflows/github-telemetry.yml`) that contains a step that `uses: cloudposse/github-action-telemetry@v1.0.0`. Here's an example workflow file:

```yaml
name: GitHub Telemetry

> on: pull_request
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on: pull_request
    types: [opened]
```

> # Telemetry Gathering GitHub Action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# GitHub Action for Telemetry
```

**Name:** `cloudposse/github-action-telemetry`

> When triggered by a GitHub API event, this action will scrape the event for all JIRA tickets mentioned and an assortment of relevant metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This GitHub Action will scrape the event such as JIRA tickets and an assortment of relevant metadata and post it to a webhook endpoint
```

## Usage instructions

> Create a workflow file (e.g. `.github/workflows/telemetry-gathering.yml`) that contains a step that `uses: cloudposse/github-action-telemetry@v1.0.0`. Here's an example workflow file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a workflow file (e.g. `.github/workflows/github-telemetry.yml`) that contains a step that `uses: cloudposse/github-action-telemetry@v1.0.0`. Here's an example workflow file:
```

```yaml

> name: Gather Telemetry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
name: GitHub Telemetry
```

on: pull_request

jobs:
  telemetry:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: cloudposse/github-action-telemetry@v1.0.0
      with:
        collector_endpoint: "https://awesome-endpoint.net"
        collector_token: ${{ secrets.token }}

>         jira_keys: "INTERNAL,EXTERNAL,CLOUDPOSSE"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        jira_keys: "DEV,OPS,SECOPS,IT"
```

```

## Inputs

- `collector_endpoint`: This is the HTTP(S) address of a webhook that is expecting POST payloads that conform to the specifications in the next section.
- `collector_token`: This is an optional token the will be passed in a `token=` header attached to the HTTP POST payload sent to the `collector_endpoint`.
- `jira_keys`: This is a comma-separated, (space-free) list of JIRA codes to look for in the GitHub event JSON. For example, if `jira_keys: "INTERNAL"`, then `cloudposse/github-action-telemetry` will extract all strings matching the regular expression `\bINTERNAL-\d+` from the GitHub event JSON.

## Payload Specification

> ```
> 
> {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
{
```

  repo_org: // e.g. cloudposse
  repo_name: // e.g. infra
  repo_url: // full URL to repo
  event_type: // github event type
  jira_tickets: [] // extracted from event payload
  pull_request { // if the event is a pull_request
    created_at:
    number:
    url:
    title:
    author:
    description:
  }
}

```

> ## Why?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use-case
```

> This event could facilitate automatic annotation of JIRA tickets based on the contents of GitHub pull requests, to improve task tracking between these two platforms. Other integration routes certainly exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This event could facilitate automatic annotation of JIRA tickets based on the contents of GitHub pull requests, to improve task tracking between these two platforms when using the native Jira GitHub interaction is not an option.
```
